[BACKGROUND MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
A very special friend
and guest for you
today, Catherine Austin Fitts.
Catherine has served as a
managing director and a member
of the board of directors of
the Wall Street investment firm
Dillon, Read & Company.
She has also been an
assistant secretary of housing
and has served in the
first Bush administration.
Now she offers her Solari
Report to subscribers like you
in a very unique
perspective on how
to navigate the
opportunities and risks
of the global financial
system and political economy.
Catherine, welcome
to "Beyond Belief."
>>CATHERINE AUSTIN
FITTS: Thank you, George.
It's always a pleasure
to be with you.
>>NOORY: You have provided
us on "Coast to Coast"
primarily some of the
greatest kinds of information.
How do you do it all the time?
>>FITTS: I'm a great example of
your audience, curious people,
independent minded.
They like to look
under the carpet.
They like to look into things.
And it started me on a
journey of helping people,
and I get questions why is
this way, always about money.
It was really funny, I was very
opposed to really understanding
space, and understand
that a lot of what's
happening here on the
planet is controlled
from the orbital platforms.
So you opened my eyes to a whole
part of the planetary balance
sheet that I hadn't understood.
>>NOORY: Well, and you've opened
our minds to a lot of things
too.
For example, what we're going
to be talking about today,
$21 trillion missing
from government.
>>FITTS: Right.
>>NOORY: I mean, we're not
talking about chump change
here. $21 trillion
over how long a period
has this been going on?
>>FITTS: That is at two
agencies, Department
of Defense and HUD, from
fiscal 1998 to 2015.
It is a long period and it was
a period of explosive growth
and globalization, where the
United States was essentially
the leader of the entire
global financial system.
Now is it transit dollars?
It's less than the bailouts.
So the bailouts, depending
on which estimate
you believe, as loans or
gifts of $24 to $29 trillion.
And you take the two
in total and you're
talking $50 trillion.
>>NOORY: How do you hide that
kind of money, Catherine?
>>FITTS: There are
many ways to hide
that kind of money, George.
>>NOORY: Really?
>>FITTS: I wouldn't
have believed it
if I hadn't lived
through the litigation
with the federal government.
But it requires enormous
control digitally
of the financial and
information systems.
If anything,
globalization incurred
tremendous labor
deflation, which helped
offset monetary inflation.
But the other thing is, when you
have very, very tight control
of the money, you can
basically ratchet down
tremendous demand on Main Street
to the benefit of the insiders.
So let's talk about inflation.
There's a wonderful website
called the Chapwood Index.
And according to
them, and this fits
with my personal experience
and that of my subscribers
and clients, that
the cost of goods,
the rise in the cost of goods
in America depending on where
you live, has run
from about 8% to 14%
over the last five years.
That's not hyperinflation, but
it's what I call the slow burn.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>FITTS: So if you look
at the people who have not
been able to keep up
with the cost of good,
they're basically getting slow
burned out of the middle class
into poverty.
>>NOORY: Into poverty.
>>FITTS: Right.
>>NOORY: Yep, that's happening.
>>FITTS: And that's part--
the monetary inflation is part
of what has been doing that.
So that absolutely reflects
currency debasement.
>>NOORY: One of the
first revelations
of this missing money came
really about a day before 9/11
by Secretary of Defense
Donald Rumsfeld.
>> Pentagon-- the
day before 9/11,
Secretary of Defense Donald
Rumsfeld declared war--
not on foreign terrorists.
>> The adversary's
closer to home.
It's the Pentagon bureaucracy.
>> He said money wasted by
the military poses a serious
threat.
>> In fact, it could be said
that it's a matter of life
and death.
>> Rumsfeld promised
change, but the next day,
the world changed.
>> Let's go, let's go!
>> And in the rush to
fund the War on Terrorism,
the war on waste seems
to have been forgotten.
>> My '03 budget calls for more
than $48 billion in new defense
spending.
>> More money for the Pentagon,
when its own auditors admit
the military cannot account for
25% of what it already spends.
>> According to some estimates,
we cannot track $2.3 trillion
in transactions.
>> $2.3 trillion, with a T--
that's $8,000 for every man,
woman, and child in America.
>>NOORY: And that was in 2001.
Now, we're at $21 trillion.
>>FITTS: Well, it's
very interesting.
I had been working
with a reporter
at "InSight" magazine who,
for two years coming up
to that press conference,
had published stories
about the money going
missing at HUD and DOD.
And we were more focused
on HUD, because I know--
>>NOORY: Because you know it.
>>FITTS: --much more
about the HUD operations.
And she was about to
cover a huge cover
story on the missing
money on the Friday
following that
Rumsfeld's speech.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>FITTS: So I remember
talking to her on Monday when
the press conference happened.
And I assume Rumsfeld was doing
it to get ahead of the story,
because they all
knew it was coming.
She'd been
interviewing everyone.
And I made the mistake of
saying to her, you know,
nothing can stop this story now.
[LAUGHTER]
So I'll never say that again.
>>NOORY: And look what happened.
>>FITTS: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Look what happened.
>>NOORY: When $1 comes into the
treasury, how do you hide it?
>>FITTS: Here's
the thing, George.
If you look at federal accounts
and financial statements,
it's a little bit like
"The Joy of Cooking."
There are hundreds and hundreds
and hundreds of recipes.
So that's why, if you want
to understand this issue,
you want to focus on examples.
So for example, let's start
off with the bailouts.
At the time of $24 to
$29 trillion of bailouts,
$8 trillion dollars
would have paid off
all the single-family
mortgages in the country.
>>NOORY: Done.
>>FITTS: Right.
So whatever that--
>>NOORY: You got free
debt-free houses.
>>FITTS: [LAUGHS] Whatever
that $24 trillion was about,
I believe that there
was very significant
securities fraud involved
with the mortgage securities.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>FITTS: Right.
And certainly the
fact that the bailouts
were three times the outstanding
single-family mortgages
would indicate that that
was probably the case.
So when $1 comes in--
and remember, it can go into
an account in an agency,
or it can go into an
account in Treasury.
But the reality is that $1
doesn't go into Treasury.
It goes into a bank account
at the New York Fed, which
is depository for the Treasury.
>>NOORY: So it's sitting
around somewhere.
Somebody's got it.
>>FITTS: In theory.
>>NOORY: In theory.
So it can come in,
or it can go out.
And it can come in from taxes.
It can come in from sales and a
variety of other transactions.
Or it can come in from
selling treasury securities.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>FITTS: So one of
the things we know
about the undocumentable
adjustments-- we
know that there were
probably revenues in that.
So $21 trillion
is missing, or is
undocumented, but
that $21 trillion
can be revenues and expenses.
So in theory, it could be $10
trillion in and $10 trillion
out.
>>NOORY: And wouldn't you get
interest on the $21 trillion
somewhere in some bank?
>>FITTS: Only if that was
the terms and conditions
of the account.
So we know, for
example, in Madoff--
Madoff's had
extraordinary amounts
of cash balances sitting
in its bank, JP Morgan.
But it doesn't appear that
they were earning much, if any,
interest.
>>NOORY: Waste.
>>FITTS: No, not waste.
>>NOORY: $21 trillion dollars,
Catherine-- even if you got 3%,
you'd be making a lot of money.
>>FITTS: Well, but
here's the thing, George.
You have to look at
what they're up to.
And this is just conjecture.
If I put $1 in a bank account
and part of my agreement
is that I'm going to
leave that $1 there
and you're free to use it,
then that's part of the deal.
I mean, if you look at--
>>NOORY: So the
scheme widens here.
>>FITTS: Yeah, and I go back
to "The Joy of Cooking."
There are hundreds and
hundreds of recipes.
I came to believe that the
HUD accounts were probably
being used to launder
drug profits back.
>>NOORY: You felt that.
>>FITTS: I believe
that, and part of it
was because of the
nature of the mortgage
fraud in the same neighborhoods
as the drugs were coming in.
>>NOORY: Drug profits.
>>FITTS: Right, so I go
back to Dillon Read here.
>>NOORY: Are you talking about
illegal drugs or prescription
drugs?
>>FITTS: Oh, I'm talking
about illegal drugs.
I would refer everybody
to "Dillon Read
& the Aristocracy
of Stock Profits."
But there was--
>>NOORY: Your book.
>>FITTS: Yeah, there was
extraordinary patterns
of mortgage fraud in
South Central, LA,
where the narcotics were coming
in during the "Dark Alliance"
allegations.
>>NOORY: This is horrible.
>>FITTS: [LAUGHS] So in
1998, Congress held hearings
on the "Dark
Alliance" allegations,
and I was helping a reporter
with the coverage of the story.
And she asked the spokesperson
for the Department
of Justice questions
about what was going on.
And those spokesperson
had told her
that the US economy at that
time launders $500 billion to $1
trillion of all illegal moneys.
And that includes
narcotics trafficking.
[LAUGHS]
So I was giving a speech to
a wonderful group of people
called Spiritual Frontiers
Foundation International,
and they talked about how they
can help evolve our society
spiritually.
And I was in the
middle of the speech,
and I was explaining
what this person
from the Department of
Justice had told the reporter.
And I said, what
would happen if we
stopped being the global
leader in money laundering?
>>NOORY: [LAUGHS]
>>FITTS: The audience-- we
had a little discussion.
They said, well, you know, our
IRAs and 401(k)s would go down
because that money would leave
the New York Stock Exchange
and go to Hong
Kong or Singapore.
And we'd have trouble financing
the government deficit
because we needed
to borrow money.
I said, OK, well, let's pretend
there's a big red button up
here in the lectern.
And if you push
that button, you can
stop all hard
narcotics trafficking
in your city, your town--
>>NOORY: Instantly.
>>FITTS: --your state,
tomorrow, thus offending
the people who control $500
billion a year to $1 trillion
a year of all dirty money.
So I said, who here
will push that button?
And out of 100 people dedicated
to evolving our society
spiritually, guess how
many would push the button?
>>NOORY: None.
>>FITTS: One.
>>NOORY: One.
>>FITTS: So I said
to the other, say,
99, why would you
not push the button?
And they said, we don't want
our pension funds to go down.
We don't want our
government checks to stop--
>>NOORY: So they
think this is OK.
>>FITTS: --we don't
want our taxes-- well,
it's not that they
think it's OK.
What I discovered
that day was they
felt a very strong conflict
between their fiduciary
obligation to their family
and doing the right thing
for the whole.
And the problem, George,
was not that they
wouldn't push the red button.
The problem was
that they wouldn't
go into the invention room
and say, well, how can we
turn the red button green?
How can we make money
pushing the red button?
Because if we could make
money pushing the red button,
we could put--
so the problem was not that they
wouldn't push the red button.
The problem was, we weren't
having an honest conversation.
And so you know me--
I keep promoting transparency,
transparency, transparency.
One of the reasons I met
you-- and I love the work
that you've done.
You're trying to inspire
an honest conversation.
And if you go to
any of your shows,
your attitude is, we're all
here to figure it out together.
You're not trying to
control the truth.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>FITTS: You're not trying to
be guilty of material omissions.
So to a certain
extent, America is
going to have to go
into the invention room
and figure out how we
turn the red button green.
>>NOORY: Isn't
there supposed to be
some kind of
accounting principle
where they can see this money?
And it's gone, and
somebody's supposed
to report it to Congress?
>>FITTS: So we just
published a huge piece--
I sent you a copy, we're putting
it in hard copy-- called,
"The Real Game of
Missing Money,"--
>>NOORY: Yes.
>>FITTS: --where we aggregate--
>>NOORY: Well done, by the way.
>>FITTS: Yeah, we
aggregate everything
on the missing money, including
a series of seven briefing
papers I've had some of
my attorneys write about
how the law works.
So here's how the law works.
And I'm going to put it
in a simple nutshell.
If you're interested
in the whole seven,
it's all there in
its complete detail.
Essentially, the government
is required to do two things.
Congress is required to approve
the money that's really spent.
We're not supposed to spend
more than Congress agrees to.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>FITTS: We can
borrow and spend more.
>>NOORY: If they give you
$100 limit, that's the limit.
>>FITTS: You're not
supposed to spend
anything they haven't approved.
The second thing is you're
supposed to then report
on what you spent.
So congress and the White House
approve, you spend, you report.
So essentially,
we're spending money
that we're not appropriating
is what I believe,
and we're clearly
not disclosing it.
So we've had laws progressively
and rules progressively
grown since the National
Security Act of 1947
and the CIA Act of 1949.
We've made the money more
and more and more secret.
And now, we've had
a very new event.
And this is a very new event.
It's a material event, and
it's extremely important.
If you're a citizen,
if you're an investor,
or if you're under the umbrella
of the global securities
blanket of the United States,
this is very important.
It's a change in
accounting policy
that, essentially, takes not
only the US government finance
dark, but most of the US
securities market dark.
And so that's basically--
>>NOORY: That's horrible.
>>FITTS: Well,
it's a coup d'etat.
It's a financial coup d'etat.
Essentially what
they've said is,
we can make anything secret
we want by a secret process,
by a secret group of
people, and you can't know.
So it's a complete
one-way mirror.
The NSA can watch your
smartphone, look into your TV,
look into--
you know, you're living
in "The Truman Show."
And not only that--
we can borrow money
from your pension funds.
We can tax you.
>>NOORY: Anytime
they want, anytime.
>>FITTS: Not anytime
they want-- the pension
fund trustees have to
agree to the process.
But basically--
>>NOORY: Well, apparently,
they're all bought off.
>>FITTS: Well, I don't think
everybody's bought off.
But I always say
to people, look,
this is not hopeless
at all, because you
pay an enormous
number of people--
whether it's your pension
funds, your banks, your money
managers, or government
employees-- to fix this.
And they know how to fix it.
They can fix it.
When will the
population decide, OK,
we want the red
button turned green?
>>NOORY: What is
FASAB 56, Catherine?
>>FITTS: So I call it FASB 56--
is a policy that
was implemented.
Dr. Mark Skidmore and I--
>>NOORY: Michigan State
University, right?
>>FITTS: Michigan
State University.
He heard me talking about
the fact that, in 2015,
Department of Defense
and HUD were missing
records amounts of
money-- in total almost $7
trillion dollars--
between the two of them.
And he assumed I'd
made a mistake.
He said, no, that can't--
>>NOORY: [LAUGHS]
>>FITTS: That's way too big.
That can't--
>>NOORY: No way, right?
>>FITTS: That's no way.
So he went and looked
up the documents.
He found the footnote
on page 135--
or whatever it is--
and discovered, no, I was right.
Anyway, so he called me.
And he said, can I help?
So we talked, and
I said, you bet.
After 30 years of
dealing with this,
it was like the
cavalry arriving.
So he agreed that he would
get some of his students
and do a survey.
And, George, I
and my subscribers
had found 12.5
trillion of reports
of undocumentable adjustments.
So he went through.
And it was just DOD and HUD,
not all government agencies.
And it sounds simple.
It's a huge job.
And I put up a website
with all the documentation
so you can see it.
Go to missingmoney.solari.com
and you can see everything.
It's all public.
So he kept calling
me and saying,
oh, my god, I found
another trillion.
>>NOORY: He found
another, another.
>>FITTS: I found another.
You know, he was in
shock, because he's
a very competent, capable
person with deep knowledge of--
>>NOORY: What about
the other agencies?
>>FITTS: --government.
>>NOORY: You only looked at two.
>>FITTS: We haven't
looked at those.
So anyway, so he
calls me up one day.
And we published the report
when he'd found 18 trillion,
but we kept adding,
adding, adding.
And then, it hit 21
trillion-- which, at the time,
was the same as the
US outstanding debt.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>FITTS: Now, the debt
is growing very quickly.
It's in a--
>>NOORY: It's a
little higher, now.
>>FITTS: Well, we're in a
spiral up, which is dangerous.
Talk about inflation.
It's dangerous.
Anyway, so the back and
forth between government
and Dr. Skidmore and I started.
And one of the
things I told him is,
before we publish
your report, I want
to download all the
documents and put them
on a separate website
with archives offline.
Now, he thought I was paranoid.
[LAUGHS] We launched
the website.
>>NOORY: Were you?
>>FITTS: All the documents-- no.
The IT's office at DOD and HUD
took down all the documents.
>>NOORY: They took them down?
>>FITTS: And you
should have seen him.
I've never seen-- he's
a serious scholar.
He's a very serious person.
He's a very serious scholar.
In a million years, he
didn't think it was possible.
And when it--
>>NOORY: He's a believer, now.
>>FITTS: Well, when it
happened, he was really shocked.
And then, I won't
bore you with the--
there were many,
many things that
shocked him in the process.
It's quite a funny story.
But we then made a
big deal about it
in a variety of radio shows.
And then, I bitched to the
White House-- called them
and said, put those
documents back.
So they put him up
on a different URL
and said, oh, we're
reorganizing our website.
Now, for the HUD
IG and the DOD IG
to be reorganizing their
website at the exact same time
was quite a coincidence.
Anyway, what happened was
there was back and forth.
And DOD said-- for what was far
from the first time-- oh, we're
going to take care of this.
We're going to do a real audit.
Now, what I have to tell you
is, if your bank told you
that they were missing
$21,000 of your money--
>>NOORY: I'd go nuts.
>>FITTS: Well, no, you wouldn't
leave them alone until you got
the $21,000--
>>NOORY: Oh, absolutely,
I'd be on them all the time.
>>FITTS: Yeah, so if
they came back and said,
well, don't worry, we're
going to do an audit,
it won't happen again,
what would you say?
>>NOORY: I don't care.
I want the money back in.
>>FITTS: With the $21--
[LAUGHING] Where is the money?
Where is the money?
And I'll tell you why this
is so important to me.
$5 trillion dollars
is the amount
we're always told the US
pension funds are underfunded.
Well, if we can
disappear $21 trillion
from the US government--
>>NOORY: $5 billion's nothing.
>>FITTS: If we can disappear
$24 to $29 trillion
during the bailouts
to banks who we
have no legal obligation for,
why can't we fund $5 trillion
on US, you know?
So to me, this is
all about politics.
>>NOORY: You had a chance
to talk with Dr. Joseph
Farrell about this.
>>FITTS: So a lot of liability
cleaning up is happening.
DOD makes a big deal
about doing an audit.
Doesn't mention that they're
not going to go back and find
the $21 trillion.
Moves forward with
an audit, comes out
with, ultimately,
disclosure saying
they can't produce an audit.
And we see the Federal
Accounting Standards Advisory
Board publish a proposed
policy in the summer saying,
we need the ability
to do secret books.
>> Exactly, exactly.
>>FITTS: And if we can't
do secret books where
we need to do secret
books, then we're
going to have to redact the
entire department of defense.
>> This is a perfect
way to launder money,
>>FITTS: Absolutely.
>> This is a wonderful way to
take all that missing money,
put it into a foundation, and
then let the foundation act
as the cut out.
>>NOORY: Isn't that
exactly what they're doing?
They're laundering money?
>>FITTS: Well,
here's my concern.
I just published-- and this
is part of this big collection
that we've just produced--
an article with
one of my attorneys
called, Caveat Emptor.
And basically, what it says--
if you are an investor,
we have had a material event,
and you must do due diligence.
The rating agencies
can't do this for you.
The broker dealers can't do it.
You have to do it.
And you need to understand
this is a material event.
With FASB 56, George,
what I believe is--
our pension funds, by
Treasury securities?
They can turn around and
take the assets purchased,
or the money, and just
move it out into private--
>>NOORY: And just
take it away from us?
>>FITTS: I believe they
can just move it out
into private corporations
and private hands.
Now, there's a lot of accounting
detail on why they would say
you can't.
But the reality is, if
you have secret people who
can do secret things, and
they've made this secret rule
because they didn't obey
the last set of rules,
it means they're not going
to obey any set of rules.
>>NOORY: Well, look
what happened in Greece
where they, basically, took
half of everybody's savings
right out of their bank account.
>>FITTS: Well, and I go
back to the rape of Russia.
The rape of Russia
was, in my opinion,
very much engineered
by the US intelligence
agencies and treasury.
And they basically just emptied
the pension funds, emptied
the government, emptied--
they call it privatization,
I call it piratization.
Piratization-- if I take a
piece of real estate worth $100
and move it into
private hands for $1,
that's not privatization.
That's piratization.
[LAUGHING]
So that's my concern.
My concern, when I saw
FASB 56 is, basically,
planning on taking
everything else.
But part of it is we're talking
about a fundamental governance
issue.
If I can-- through
the NSA, or the IRS--
see everything you do,
say, write, whatever,
and so you disclose 100% to me
of everything like "The Truman
Show" and, meantime,
I, the government,
can keep everything
secret from you--
from you as an
investor and purchaser
of treasury securities,
as you as a taxpayer,
as you as a citizen
with responsibilities
under the Constitution--
then the balance of
power has shifted
into something which is
much more akin to sort
of a friendly fascism.
>>NOORY: Are all these other
countries doing the same thing,
or is it just us?
>>FITTS: I think there's
a variety of models.
But I think every
country in the world
is moving to what is
called technocracy--
which Patrick Wood, who
runs "Technocracy News,"
calls a digital despotism--
which is basically highly
invasive ownership and control
at a very intimate level
using digital technology
to basically micromanage and
control and harvest your world.
But what we've seen
in the United States
is a harvesting of
the American people,
of the American middle class.
And the bailouts-- I call
it a financial coup d'etat.
And that if you take
the missing money
from the federal government
and the bailouts,
you're talking about an
extraordinary shift of wealth
by means I would say
is outside the law.
Now, they would argue that
it's under national security.
But national
security laws become
sort of a big joke, which is,
we can do whatever we want.
>>NOORY: Whatever we want.
>>FITTS: You can't do anything.
And I would say, OK, if
it's national security
law, why do we need to make
everybody rich who's doing it?
I mean, if I'm playing
with government money,
and I can rig the markets
and rig things the way
I want, then I don't need to pay
myself a large margin, [LAUGHS]
right?
>>NOORY: No, not at all,
you already have it.
>>FITTS: Right, I'm playing
with government resources.
So why do we need a small group
of people to get wildly rich?
>>NOORY: If you have your
retirement, Catherine,
and a private mutual
fund, can they touch it?
Can they grab it?
>>FITTS: Well, it's interesting.
At one point, one
of the gold groups
wrote a letter to
Treasury and said,
do you reserve the right
to confiscate our gold?
And they wrote back and
said, we reserve the right
to confiscate everything.
>>NOORY: My gosh.
>>FITTS: So let's talk
about the outstanding debt.
We have $22 trillion
officially outstanding debt.
That doesn't include--
>>NOORY: On the books, right?
>>FITTS: Right, it
doesn't include lots
of other liabilities, as well.
But if you just take
the official number
of the outstanding debt,
we're in a debt spiral up.
So last year, our
debt increased 6%.
This year, it's increasing 8%.
There was fear that
rising interest rates
was going to compound that.
But we're in a debt spiral up
where we're going into a world
where the question
is, how are we going
to finance the increasing debt?
So for many, many years now--
you and I are sort
of baby boomers--
the boomers have been
working and putting money
into their pension
funds, or putting money
into their bank account,
or putting in their money
into insurance companies.
And all those entities
went out and bought
a lot of Treasury securities.
So we put our money
in social security,
we buy Treasury securities.
Now, the boomers want to
take their money out--
>>NOORY: They want to use it.
>>FITTS: --because
they're retiring.
They want to use it.
And that gives the
national security state
a problem, because they
need a new $1 every year.
>>NOORY: To replenish it.
>>FITTS: Right.
If we take $1 out,
that's a $2 problem.
So next year, social security
turns negative cash flow.
>>NOORY: Isn't that what
happened to Bernie Madoff?
That's how he collapsed?
>>FITTS: Right.
>>NOORY: Same way.
>>FITTS: Well, but here's
what's interesting.
I interviewed one
of the attorneys who
was an investor in Madoff
and then represented
a lot of the Madoff victims.
And she sued the bank.
So I was interviewing her
on the "Solari Report."
This was one of those
shocking moments
that I know it happens to
you at "Coast to Coast".
So I'm in the middle, and
she had sued the bank.
And under bank secrecy laws
and Know Your Customer,
banks aren't supposed to be
doing the kind of shenanigans
they were doing with Madoff.
So Madoff had one bank account
from the mid-'90s on, and all
the money went in there.
And her name was Helen
Shayman-- amazing woman.
And so all the money went in,
and then all the money went out
of that one bank account.
So was I was interviewing
her, and I said,
Helen, who was the
securities custodian?
She said, there was
none, because there
were no securities.
So here you have a $60 billion
money management business,
and there's no
securities, and there's
no securities custodian.
And the bank knew,
because all the money
went in, and went out.
And the bank knew
over all those years.
So it was over 10 years.
>>NOORY: Did the
bank use the money?
>>FITTS: Yeah, there were
huge balances sitting, not
earning interest.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>FITTS: So something
else is going on.
And to this day, I would love
to know what was going on,
but I don't know what.
It was clearly an
officially-sanctioned
operation, in my opinion.
I was on the board of
the First American Bank.
Do you remember the
Clark Clifford bank in--
OK.
>>NOORY: Oh, yeah.
>>FITTS: So Harry Albright,
who'd been a client of mine
and was a wonderful man--
Morgenthau had made him
the trustee of the bank.
So this is all part
of the BCCI mess.
So Harry calls me.
He says, I need a
ringer on the board.
And I said, if you want
me, Harry, I'm there.
>>NOORY: I'm there.
>>FITTS: So had this huge glass
house in McLean, Virginia.
And Harry has the law firm
bring the documents out.
I had a very steep driveway.
This huge Brink's truck spends
an hour getting up my driveway.
And then, they back out
box after box of books.
And I had this living
room that was--
>>NOORY: And you're supposed
to look at all these?
>>FITTS: Well, I'm
a speed reader.
So it was on a Thursday,
and I spent four days just
speed reading all
those documents.
>>NOORY: Jeez.
>>FITTS: And it changed my life.
So I'm in this huge
glass living room.
I'm overlooking
the Potomac River.
And I got the boxes spread out
all over in this living room.
And I read thousands and
thousands and thousands
of pages.
And when it was
over what I realized
is, whatever they were doing
had approval from the Fed.
It had approval from
the New York Fed.
It had approval
from the Treasury.
In other words, you're talking
about something that had
to be officially sanctioned.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
It's frightening.
>>FITTS: It was frightening,
it was frightening.
And part of it was the fight.
And the reason Harry
wanted some ringers--
the Department of Justice was
trying to seize the proceeds,
and Harry wanted the proceeds
to go back to the depositors.
>>NOORY: Who won?
>>FITTS: I think Harry won--
yeah, if I remember.
>>NOORY: In your
particular case,
you're one of the few people
talking about this publicly.
Are you looking
over your shoulder?
Because you should
be, Catherine.
>>FITTS: Well, during
the litigation,
I had to look over my shoulder.
It was very dangerous, and it's
quite a miracle that I'm alive.
>>NOORY: It is.
It's a lot of money.
>>FITTS: Well, but
here's the thing--
we all come into this
life with a purpose.
I would love to see
America turn around.
And one of the
reasons I ended up
in such an enemy of the state--
litigation with the
federal government--
is, when I saw what
they were doing
in the '90s was
stealing the money,
the thing that bothered
me the most was the HUD
and the Department
of Justice were
dropping SWAT teams into
black neighborhoods,
rounding up innocent kids,
stuffing them in prison.
My old firm was making
money on the prison stocks.
If you read the
Dillon Reed story,
it describes all of that.
But basically, if you look
at what they were doing--
both with globalization and the
re-engineering domestically--
the world I was
part of had a plan,
and I thought their
plan was going to fail.
And so when I left the
Bush administration,
I had created Hamilton
Securities to come up
with an alternative plan.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>FITTS: I said,
look, we can't--
people want to be part
of something excellent.
They don't want to be
part of organized crime.
And I just thought,
at some point,
you've got to decide
between, are we
going to run this clean or are
we going to run this dirty?
And if you have to choose--
I've always said, civilization
is the biggest capital gains
opportunity on the
planet, [LAUGHS]
because I really do
believe in markets.
I don't think technocracy
is going to work.
But their plan was
basically technocracy.
And if you looked at it,
as a financial matter,
I thought it was going to lose.
So I said, I don't want
to be a part of it.
And it's funny--
>>NOORY: Well, that was
smart on your part--
>>FITTS: But no, I didn't--
>>NOORY: --but dangerous.
>>FITTS: Yeah, but
here's the thing--
I didn't come here to be safe.
I came here to live a
free and inspired life.
And if you go back--
I'm a Christian--
and particularly,
if you study Jesus
and what he taught,
if you read his letter to
the Galatians, he said,
reject the yoke of bondage.
>>NOORY: You just wrote a book
called, "Dillon Read & the
Aristocracy of Stock Prophets."
Let's take a look
at this in depth.
>>FITTS: There's an old
New Jersey street saying--
make a law, make a business.
And that's what
this story is about.
It starts with the
popsicle index.
The popsicle index
is the percentage
of people in a
community who believe
a child can leave their
home, go to the nearest place
to buy a popsicle, and
come home alone safely.
When I was a little girl, the
popsicle index was very high.
Today, it is much lower.
During this time, the Dow
Jones index rose by over 6000%.
Why are the popsicle index and
the Dow Jones index at odds?
Cui Bono?
Who benefits?
Who makes money in the stock
market from a falling popsicle
index?
This is the story of my search
for answers to these questions
and of my hope for a
world that preserves
the promise of a rising
popsicle index for our children
and generations yet unborn.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>NOORY: The
popsicle index, huh?
>>FITTS: So I discovered
this when I was
Assistant Secretary of Housing.
The first month, I
kept being lobbied
by all the home construction
industry and the mortgage
finance industry.
And what I realized
is, everybody
was lobbying me to do whatever
made their stock go up.
And nobody cared about whether
neighborhoods worked or not,
or whether families
were successful.
And I thought, this is strange.
And what I realized
is, there was
no place-based optimization,
because government money
was running places.
And government money
was running places
in a way that had what I call a
negative return on investment.
It was using the government as a
device to sort of launder money
into people who have made
money in the stock market.
>>NOORY: Let them make more.
>>FITTS: Right.
Well, to me, I love making money
in the stock market, George.
I'm an investment banker.
So to me, that's--
>>NOORY: Sure,
that's what you do.
>>FITTS: Yeah, yeah, it's great.
But what I realized is we
have a win-lose relationship
between the Dow Jones
index and communities.
So all my work at Hamilton
was, how do we change that?
It's part of making
the red button green.
How do we make
money turning this
into a win-win relationship?
Because if we're going to
make America great again,
we're either going to gentrify
Americans out of existence
and destroy them, or we're going
to change that relationship
to win-win, lose-lose.
We used to have a saying, what's
good for General Motors is
good for America.
That was a time--
>>NOORY: That's true.
>>FITTS: --when there was
a win-win relationship
between the Dow Jones
and the communities.
So the question is, how
do we change that back?
>>NOORY: In 1989, when you
were the Assistant Secretary
of Housing and
Urban Development,
did you foresee the
housing bubble that
happened 20 years later?
>>FITTS: No.
Well, what happened
was I started
to discover the
extent of the fraud
when I was Assistant Secretary.
>>NOORY: How did
that come to you?
What did you see first?
>>FITTS: Well, I'll tell
you one of the first ways
it came to me.
I met with the secretary.
And the secretary said,
I am furious about all
this corruption.
I want all this
corruption stopped.
We just finished both the
Iran-Contra scandal and the S&L
crisis, so I was there to clean
up and stop the corruption.
He said, I want all
this corruption stopped.
And actually, there was a
program called coinsurance,
a very famous example of this.
He said, I want this all
stopped and shut down.
So I said, yes, sir,
left his office.
And I had a deputy.
He called the
deputy in and said,
I just told Fitts to stop this.
Make sure she fails.
>>NOORY: Whoa.
>>FITTS: So we used to have--
>>NOORY: Mixed signals.
>>FITTS: [LAUGHS] Well,
because he needed to tell--
>>NOORY: He set you up.
>>FITTS: He needed to tell
the press that he was stopping
the corruption, but he needed
to keep delivering money
to the political constituents
in the black budget.
>>NOORY: He had no plans to stop
it, did he, from the get go?
>>FITTS: He didn't
have the power.
In other words, the Secretary
of HUD does not run HUD.
HUD is run by the
banks and defense
contractors who run HUD.
>>NOORY: Of course, always was.
>>FITTS: So for example, both
when I was Assistant Secretary
and then, years later when I
was the lead financial advisor,
I would ask the defense
contractors for data.
They would refuse
to give it to me.
So it was very interesting.
When I first got to HUD--
I'm very big on
understanding what
your scope of
responsibilities are,
so I read the law
and the regulations
to know what the Assistant
Secretary of Housing
federal housing commissioner
is required by law to do.
So I made a detailed
thing of my scope--
OK, that's my scope of work.
And one of my biggest
responsibilities
was running the
Single-Family Insurance Fund.
And I was required by law to run
it on a self-supporting basis.
So the premiums you
charge for the insurance
have to cover the defaults--
>>NOORY: They got
to stand on its own.
>>FITTS: --and the expenses.
So I go in.
And this is very much like
the First American story.
So I ask my budget officer
for all the budgets.
It almost could
go to the ceiling,
the budget justifications.
I sped read it all weekend
long and called him
back in on Monday and
said, nowhere here
does it say if we're
making or losing money.
Cash in, cash out?
I can't--
He said, oh, well,
that's not in the budget.
I said, well, where is that?
He said, the accounts have that.
I said, well, where
are the accounts?
He said, they report to
another assistant secretary.
You're not allowed
to talk to them.
So I always tell
people, George, I
raised a lot of money for
the president and what I got
was a pair of cuff links
and the accounts moved over.
>>NOORY: So they basically
used you to create this image
that things are going to change,
things are going to get tough.
Meanwhile, they never stopped
doing what they were doing.
>>FITTS: Well, actually, it's
like a pendulum, and it swings.
You bring in the clean
team, they clean it up.
Then, you bring the dirty
team in, you harvest it.
It's like the planters
and the harvesters.
Do you know what I mean?
>>NOORY: Did you know that the
dirty team was still out there
doing what it was doing?
>>FITTS: I did not
understand the extent
to which the finances were run.
You know, there's
official reality,
and then there's a reality.
And by the time I
left, I was certainly
grappling with the
tension over the gap.
But I had a hard time
understanding how--
what I couldn't
figure out is, how
could they steal that much
money and me not know?
And it was only after
I started to litigate
with the Department of
Justice that I had access
to the people I needed
to be able to estimate
the covert flows.
And for me, that was
a mixed blessing.
It was dangerous,
but it was wonderful,
because if you're
going to understand
the global economy or
the American economy,
you've got to see
the covert flows.
I'm always telling
people, our world's
a little bit like Disney World.
You've got an upstairs world
with Minnie and Mickey.
And then, you got
a downstairs where
everything's being engineered.
And if you're going
to understand,
you have to understand
both together.
>>NOORY: Is everything
rampant now?
Is it just out of control?
>>FITTS: Well, I would
say that what we've had
is a huge debasement
of the culture that
has made it much harder.
If you're a financial
professional,
if you're in bank,
if you're insurance,
if you're in brokerage, it's
much harder to do your work.
One-- because there's so much
more fraud in the system.
Finding people of integrity
is a bigger challenge,
finding institutions
of integrity.
And you'll see
institutions too, now,
that I would have
thought was unthinkable.
So I'm always telling my
clients and subscribers,
you can't depend on the Federal
Credit to bail everything out.
In all these different areas
of your financial life,
you've got to find people in
companies with real integrity.
>>NOORY: What do you think they
use this money for, Catherine?
The $21 trillion-- where is it?
>>FITTS: Well, this is
how I met you, George.
[LAUGHING] I don't
know if you remember.
I did my first interview
with you in 2005.
>>NOORY: Yeah, I remember that.
>>FITTS: And you
said, don't you think
they're using it to deal
with whatever is going on
with the UFO phenomenon?
I said no, George, I think
they're just stealing.
[LAUGHS] And I think it's both.
>>NOORY: Are they lining
their own personal pockets?
>>FITTS: So we're talking about
far too much money to be just
a group of guys on Wall Street
with Ferraris and off-shore--
>>NOORY: And nice houses, yeah.
>>FITTS: So I'm not
saying that people haven't
made an awful lot of money.
They have.
So you've had kind
of a gold rush.
And what you've done
is you've used money
to incentivize people.
I mean, what's
amazing to me is--
if you throw enough
money at people,
it's amazing what you
can get them to do.
So there's no doubt
that making people rich
has been very helpful in
getting them to destroy--
if you look at the
freedoms that we enjoy here
versus other places in the
world, it's extraordinary.
It's wonderful.
>>NOORY: Of course,
it feels wonderful.
>>FITTS: Yeah and it's hard.
I'll give you a perfect example.
I wrote a great article
called, "William Diefenderfer,
The Hit Man of Student Loans."
I had a former partner
who was very instrumental,
I believe, in engineering
the destruction of consumer
protections for student
loans so that kids
can't declare bankruptcy now.
And in the article,
I talk about how hard
it is for me to
believe that someone
who was such a high quality
person that I would want him
on my board would do something.
Why?
I mean, here's someone who--
>>NOORY: It's beyond anything.
>>FITTS: The United States
has been so wonderful
that he has been
so blessed in terms
of professional accomplishments
and making money.
Why would you turn around and
destroy the next generation?
Why would you do that?
Because it's an entrapment.
And it's shocking to me that
someone I know and cared about
would do that.
And that was the problem
I had in Washington
with what we were doing in
the poorer neighborhoods.
Because what we were
doing was lawless,
and it was shocking
to me that people
would go along with that.
So I just think, when you
have this much secret money,
the problem with
secret money, George,
is it's impossible to
optimize it and use it well.
It goes out of control.
So there's something happening
that's out of control.
And the question is, what
are they dealing with?
I think a lot of it is going
into secret military expenses.
>>NOORY: Absolutely--
space programs.
>>FITTS: A lot of it's
going into space programs.
I don't know if you saw
this, but at the D-Day--
>>NOORY: Festivities.
>>FITTS: --the president
made a reference to,
we got a man on the moon,
and then we went beyond.
[LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: Yeah, oops.
>>FITTS: Then he tweets
out that he wants NASA
to focus on getting to Mars.
You know, it's really
funny, because he
doesn't like keeping secrets.
He wants to share something.
So I think a lot of the money
is has gone into space programs.
If you look at the
percentage of the GNP
and the federal
budget that was going
into space at the end of
the Kennedy administration
and the end of the Johnson
administration, it's gone down.
And I think it's
because of the secret.
>>NOORY: The secret
went up, absolutely.
>>FITTS: Right, so I think
the trajectory continued,
but the gap between
what's public
and that trajectory
has been part of this.
To do that, you've needed
a vast underground.
>>NOORY: Network, yep.
>>FITTS: So I've
tried to understand
what the underground
installations
and transportation networks are.
I think they're
unbelievably expensive.
I was in the Netherlands
a couple of years ago,
and this wonderful--
we had a little luncheon for
subscribers as I travel around.
We have luncheons.
And this wonderful guy
from the city of London
who had been a trader in the
city of London came over.
And I said, well,
tell me about you.
How did you get hooked up
with the "Solari Report"?
He said, well, all those
years I was trading in London,
I kept looking at the mining
companies and the elevator
companies.
And I kept thinking, really?
How are they making
all this money?
Where are they getting
the money from?
And then I discovered
the "Solari Report."
And I said, oh, that's
where they're getting it.
>>NOORY: That's where it's at.
>>FITTS: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Let's
take a look at some
of the things
you've talked about.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>FITTS: We are facing multiple
tsunamis of change that are
coming all at the same time.
And it's not like mom
and dad are up there
planning for this to go right.
So one is the rise of Asia.
We just did the second-quarter
wrap up on the rise of Asia.
The second is the reshoring of
capital to the United States
and a shift to a
multipolar world.
We talk a lot about that
on the "Solari Report."
Another, I believe,
is you're seeing
a real move in the United
States to privatize
a tremendous amount of
government operations.
So all the corporations that
help create the negative return
on investment, you're
going to double down--
[LAUGHS] negative
return on investment.
But the biggest
tsunami is the one
that you've done the most work
on the "Solari Report" about,
and that is AI.
Deep learning AI is
rolling out at high speed
in multiple systems
across this society,
and I don't think
anybody is ready for it.
I know I'm not ready for it.
I'm just trying
to understand it.
You and I called
it the AI invasion,
and I think every
aspect of our life
is going to be invaded by AI.
And we can't fathom what this
change is going to be like.
But one of the rules
of thumb I always
use is an expression
from scripture-- faith
is the substance of things
hoped for, but not yet seen.
And you hear this a lot when you
listen to the interviews we've
done with John Rappoport.
The building block
of reality is created
from a cement called faith.
Many of us are
trained to believe
we have to understand
where the world is going
and align ourselves to
match it-- so in line
with the primary
trends, which is fine.
But the reality is, our world
is created through our faith.
You have to-- and I've told
you many stories about where
I was told it was hopeless,
and I had to go along.
I said, I'm not going along.
So kill me, I'm not going along.
You stand on faith.
Faith is the substance.
It's the building
blocks of reality.
It's our faith.
>>NOORY: So you really
believe AI is going
to have a big effect on us?
>>FITTS: Huge.
It's having a--
>>NOORY: It already is.
>>FITTS: It's had a huge effect
for the last 10 years, yeah.
>>NOORY: I mean,
every possibility.
It's involved in
privacy, financial.
It's everywhere.
>>FITTS: So I'm going to grossly
oversimplify to make a point.
If it wasn't for the
distribution of smartphones
and AI, we would be
having hyperinflation.
>>NOORY: No question about it?
>>FITTS: Right.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
Are you concerned about
the future for all of us?
Let's take the $21 trillion
aside that they're hiding.
What about other things-- wars?
>>FITTS: So one of the
greatest comments I ever got--
I used to work for somebody
who was very non-critical.
But only occasionally
would he criticize.
But one day turned to
me, and he looked at me.
He says, you know
what your problem is?
You fret too much.
[LAUGHS]
So I worry about the future
in the sense that, to me--
I'm a risk manager.
And I want to know, what can I
do to teach my subscribers how
to lower the risk?
Because a lot about
making money or being free
is lowering your risk.
>>NOORY: Right, and being ready.
>>FITTS: Well--
>>NOORY: It's so important.
>>FITTS: I don't think you
can predict the future.
I think the future is
invented, not predicted.
But the more you
can identify risks
and know how you're
going to handle them,
the more you can be--
>>NOORY: Be ready for it.
>>FITTS: Yeah, know how to duck.
It's very important
to know how to duck.
So I'm a risk manager, because
I like to know how to duck.
But I also believe
that the future
is defined by our
spiritual power and faith.
And whatever happens,
it's going to be
what our spiritual power
and faith make happen.
So I'm much more focused
on inventing the future
than worrying about it.
>>NOORY: You're concerned
about finances, health,
all kinds of issues, aren't you?
>>FITTS: Yeah, and one
of the reasons, George,
is for 11 years I was an--
I still do screening as
an investment advisor,
but I don't do individual
consultations anymore.
But when I did,
one of the things
I discovered is the thing
that was most harming people's
finances were
non-financial things.
So you can't look at somebody
just as a financial matter.
One of the points I
always made was-- people
would tell me that they
couldn't afford really
good, fresh food, organic food.
I was like, are you nuts?
Because while they're
having millions
sitting in their
brokerage account,
they're literally
getting physically
toxic from the
pesticides or whatever.
So I said, look, you've got
to look at your balance sheet
in a holistic way.
And you've got to look at
your children and your family.
I don't know if you know this
story, but the reason I'm alive
was when I was on Wall Street--
you know, I love making money.
Whenever anybody in my family
or friends were in trouble,
I would give them
or loan them money.
And when--
>>NOORY: Never to get it back.
>>FITTS: Well, when the
Department of Justice
came after me, they tried to
shut off my income, my credit.
And they would throw make-work
at me to just evaporate them.
They would come up with a
make-work that would cost me
a quarter of a million dollars.
So everybody got together and
said, well, she helped us,
so we should help her.
I had a wealthy uncle who
really financed me for 11 years.
>>NOORY: Really, that long?
My gosh.
>>FITTS: But he said,
she helped everyone else,
so I'll help her.
I was able to pay him back.
>>NOORY: Good for you, Cath.
>>FITTS: But I counted up--
a lot of them then paid me
back because, they said,
you need it back.
And some of them
didn't have much money,
but they'd send me $50,
$100 a month, or whatever.
It adds up.
>>NOORY: Just to help you.
>>FITTS: But I counted it up.
I had gifted or loaned a
quarter of a million dollars,
and that's exactly what
got gifted and paid back.
And it was that quarter
of a million dollars
that saved my life.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>FITTS: So my best
investment that I ever
made was gifting and loaning
money to family and friends.
>>NOORY: Helping other people.
>>FITTS: Yeah.
The other thing is, I'm a big
investor in people. if you
are in our quarterly wrap-ups,
there's a donation page.
And if you come to Solari, every
week, we're posting donations.
And it's my way of saying--
>>NOORY: Thank you.
>>FITTS: Yeah, thank you.
But also, here are good
people doing good things.
Let's help them.
And it's one of the reasons
I love crowdfunding,
because lots of people
can get together, and all
give a little bit, but
really make things go.
>>NOORY: So let's
assume the $21 trillion
dollars is never discovered.
It's gone.
Are we going to be OK?
>>FITTS: It's not gone, George.
Those assets are real, and
they're running around right
in front of our face.
[LAUGHS] And the companies that
engaged in those transactions--
so you have both defense
contractors, IT contractors,
and banks--
they're liable for that money.
So you could say, OK, well,
the money's on the moon.
They're liable, and
they have assets.
They have balance sheets.
>>NOORY: They're liable only
if somebody discloses this.
>>FITTS: Yes, but
there is such a thing
as a political negotiation.
So when we come to
Congress and negotiate--
whether it's social
security, or pension funds,
or any of these things--
as a political matter, we
can put that on the table.
That fact can go on
the table as part of--
they can say, well,
there's no money.
And you say, well,
well, wait a minute.
Where's the $21 trillion?
That's our--
>>NOORY: That's our start.
>>FITTS: That's our money.
>>NOORY: That's right.
>>FITTS: Our money, so don't--
and not only that.
You're running
secret books, so we
don't know these assets
aren't disappearing.
So that's our money.
Now, we can either do an
audit and get that money back,
or you can fix this.
So as political leverage,
that information--
Nicholas Negroponte once
said, in the digital age,
data about money is
worth more than money.
That data in the political
process, used effectively,
is worth a lot.
>>NOORY: It sure is.
Catherine, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>FITTS: Thank you, George.
And thank you for
all the opportunities
you've given me over this year.
>>NOORY: Absolutely.
So if you need more information
on Catherine Austin Fitts,
you can go to her
website, Solari.com--
S-O-L-A-R-I dot com.
It will be well worth it.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]